---
layout: post
title:  "Taking things for granted"
date:   2017-01-21
excerpt: ""
tag:
- Philippines
- Daily Experiences
- Mental Health
- Payong Medikal
---




I take a lot of things for granted and some things are more apparent than others. For example, commuting is relatively painless in the United States. In Grand Rapids I had my own car and there weren’t normally enough people on the road to cause traffic. When I lived in Ann Arbor everything I needed was in walking distance plus I’m a big fan of cold weather and layering fall clothes. Even Boston was relatively convenient. The buses and subways operated in a timely manner, barring city crippling snow storms, and an app would tell me when the next ride would come. The number one thing that people complain about here is the traffic. When someone arrives, inevitably the first thing mentioned is how bad traffic was on the way. Accounting for an extra hour or more travel time is part of the way of life here. Leaving the house 15 minutes later than normal could be the difference between commuting 20 minutes or an hour. One morning it took me 45 minutes to leave the subdivision. There is no avoiding it, every hour is rush hour. I had to turn off my Google notifications because I would be “experiencing heavy delays” regardless of my location. Whenever I leave the house I'm prepared to be out all day even if I only want to run a few errands. Attempting to go back home and then leave again would be too much of a hassle. My cousin drives his younger brother to school and then sleeps in the car for three hours before his class starts because it would take too much time to return to the house.  


On the other hand, I had a humbling conversation yesterday with Adam, who is the driving force behind Payong Medikal. I am in charge of the content for Mental Health Monday posts which are intended to raise awareness about mental health related topics. Right now, I’m focused on providing basic information but in the future I’ll also be using it as a platform to bring attention to local organizations and resources. We were discussing the reception of the past few posts, I brought up that the latest Mental Health Monday post hadn’t received as much attention as the previous weeks. I started talking about the graphic being too busy and hard to read when Adam reminded me of who my audience was. He mentioned that a few individuals had asked questions about whether or not becoming pregnant was possible if they were having sex despite being unmarried. It was a reality check. When I initially started putting information together I knew I had to try and keep things simple. What Adam said put into perspective who was following the page and exactly how basic I needed to go. I had been presenting information from the viewpoint that I was talking to individuals that lacked knowledge about mental health. In reality I’m communicating with individuals who haven’t had the opportunities to learn even fundamental health knowledge. 

I wasn’t aware that I took for granted the fact that I’m usually surrounded by highly educated people. Almost everyone I associate with, from close friends to acquaintances, has a college degree or is on their way to one. It’s weird realizing that the majority of people I interact with belong to such a small cross section of the population. 


3 Things:

1. Uncle Iroh from the hit TV show Avatar the Last Airbender
2. A person asking me if Xanga was similar to any other programming languages 
3. Telegram messaging app
